HTML Fundamentals
 
1.What are the basic Features of HTTP?

There are three fundamental features that make the HTTP a simple and powerful protocol used for communication:

HTTP is media independent: It specifies that any type of media content can be sent by HTTP as long as both the server and the client can handle the data content.
HTTP is connectionless: It is a connectionless approach in which HTTP client i.e., a browser initiates the HTTP request and after the request is sent the client disconnects from server and waits for the response.
HTTP is stateless: The client and server are aware of each other during a current request only. Afterwards, both of them forget each other. Due to the stateless nature of protocol, neither the client nor the server can retain the information about different request across the web pages.


2.What are request methods in HTTP?

GET
POST
PUT
PATCH
DELETE


3.What are the differences between GET and POST methods?

-GET method places the parameters inside the URI while POST method appends the parameters into the body.
-GET is essentially used for fetching the information. As against, the purpose of POST method is to update the data.
-POST query results cannot be bookmarked whereas GET query results can be bookmarked because it exists in the form of URL.
-In GET method the information is visible in the URL which increases vulnerabilities and the risk of hacking. In contrast, the POST method does not show variable in URL and multiple encoding techniques can also be used in it, which make it resilient.
-When GET method is used in the form, only ASCII characters are accepted in data types. On the contrary, POST method does not bind form data types and permit binary as well as ASCII characters.
-The variable size in GET method is approx 2000 characters. Inversely, POST method allows up to 8 Mb variable size.
-GET method data is cacheable while data of POST method is not.


4.What is status code in HTTP?

200 - OK
201 - Success
400 - Bad request
401 - Unauthorized
404 - Notfound
500 - Server error


5.What are the header fields in HTTP?
6.What is URI?

-URI - Uniform Resource Identifier
-It is a string of characters that identifies a resource on the web either by using location, name or both.
-It allows uniform identification of the resources.
-


7.What are Idempotent methods and why do we call them?
8.Explain HTTP Request & Response Messages
9.What is Session State in HTTP?
10.What is HTTPS?
 
Introduction to API
 
1.Explain REST and RESTFUL?
2.Mention what are the HTTP methods supported by REST?
3.Explain the architectural style for creating web API?
4.Explain the RESTFul Web Service?
5.Explain what is a “Resource” in REST?
6.Which protocol is used by RESTful web services?
7.What is messaging in RESTful web services?
8.State the core components of an HTTP Request?
9.State the core components of an HTTP response?
10.What do you understand about payload in RESTFul web service?
11.Explain the caching mechanism?
12.List the main differences between SOAP and REST?
13.Enlist advantages and disadvantages of ‘Statelessness’.

Object Oriented Programming Fundamentals

1.What is the main difference between a class and an object?
2.What is Encapsulation? Explain with a used case
3.What is Polymorphism? Explain with a used case
4.Explain Overriding & Overloading and its advantages
5.What is Inheritance and different types of inheritance? Explain with a used case
6.What is an abstract class?
7.What is an interface and how multiple inheritance is achieved with this
8.What are the access modifiers?
9.What are the various types of constructors?
10.What is ‘this’ pointer?
11.What is static and dynamic Binding?
12.How many instances can be created for an abstract class and why?
13.Which OOPS concept is used as a reuse mechanism and explain with a use case
14.Please identify one practical scenario for each pillar of OOPs.
